README.md, before:

# 🚀 Smart FAQ - AI-Powered Q&A Assistant

> A modern, production-ready Question & Answer management system powered by vector search and semantic reranking. Built with cutting-edge open-source technologies for maximum performance and developer experience.

[![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-007ACC?style=flat&logo=typescript&logoColor=white)](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
[![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/React-20232A?style=flat&logo=react&logoColor=61DAFB)](https://reactjs.org/)
[![Node.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-339933?style=flat&logo=nodedotjs&logoColor=white)](https://nodejs.org/)
[![Pinecone](https://img.shields.io/badge/Pinecone-430098?style=flat&logo=pinecone&logoColor=white)](https://www.pinecone.io/)

## ✨ Features

- **🔍 Semantic Search**: Lightning-fast vector similarity search powered by Pinecone
- **🎯 Intelligent Reranking**: Advanced transformer-based reranking for precise relevance scoring
- **📊 Modern UI**: Beautiful, responsive interface built with shadcn/ui and Tailwind CSS
- **📝 Q&A Management**: Full CRUD operations with bulk CSV import/export
- **🌐 Multi-language Support**: Optimized embeddings for query and passage types
- **🔐 Secure Authentication**: Session-based access control
- **⚡ Real-time Updates**: Live metrics and instant search results
- **📱 Mobile-First**: Fully responsive design for all devices

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

### Frontend
- **⚛️ React 18** - Modern UI library with hooks and concurrent features
- **📘 TypeScript** - Type-safe development with excellent IDE support
- **⚡ Vite** - Next-generation frontend tooling with instant HMR
- **🎨 Tailwind CSS** - Utility-first CSS framework for rapid UI development
- **🧩 shadcn/ui** - High-quality, accessible component library built on Radix UI
- **🔄 React Query** - Powerful data synchronization and caching
- **🗺️ React Router** - Declarative routing for single-page applications
- **📊 Recharts** - Composable charting library built on React components

**Why these technologies?**
- **React + TypeScript**: Industry-standard combination providing type safety, excellent tooling, and massive ecosystem
- **Vite**: 10-100x faster than Webpack, instant server start, and optimized production builds
- **Tailwind CSS**: Write styles faster, maintain consistency, and build responsive UIs without leaving HTML
- **shadcn/ui**: Copy-paste components you own, fully customizable, accessible by default
- **React Query**: Eliminates boilerplate for data fetching, caching, synchronization, and background updates

### Backend
- **🟢 Node.js 20** - JavaScript runtime built on Chrome's V8 engine
- **🚀 Express 5** - Fast, unopinionated web framework for Node.js
- **📘 TypeScript** - End-to-end type safety across the stack
- **🗄️ SQLite (better-sqlite3)** - Zero-configuration database, perfect for embedded applications
- **🔍 Pinecone** - Managed vector database for production ML applications
- **✅ Zod** - TypeScript-first schema validation with static type inference
- **📝 Pino** - Extremely fast logger with structured JSON output

**Why these technologies?**
- **Express**: Minimal, flexible, battle-tested framework with massive middleware ecosystem
- **SQLite**: Perfect for applications needing reliable, file-based storage without database server overhead
- **Pinecone**: Production-ready vector DB with managed infrastructure, automatic scaling, and optimized performance
- **Zod**: Catch errors at runtime AND compile-time, eliminates duplicate type definitions
- **better-sqlite3**: Fastest SQLite binding for Node.js, synchronous API perfect for server-side operations

### AI/ML
- **🧠 Pinecone Embeddings** - State-of-the-art embedding models (e.g., `text-embedding-3-large`)
- **🎯 Pinecone Reranker** - Transformer-based reranking models (e.g., `bge-reranker-v2-m3`)
- **📊 Semantic Search** - Query-aware embeddings optimized for search vs. document storage

**Why Pinecone?**
- **Managed Infrastructure**: No DevOps overhead, automatic scaling, and 99.9% uptime SLA
- **Optimized Performance**: Sub-50ms query latency, handles millions of vectors effortlessly
- **Production-Ready**: Battle-tested by thousands of companies, enterprise-grade security
- **Multi-language Support**: Excellent coverage for international applications
- **Unified API**: Embeddings, vector storage, and reranking through a single platform

## 🏗️ Architecture

```
┌─────────────────┐
│   React + Vite  │  Frontend (Port 5173)
│   TypeScript    │
└────────┬────────┘
         │ REST API
┌────────▼────────┐
│  Express Server │  Backend (Port 8080)
│   TypeScript    │
└────────┬────────┘
         │
    ┌────┴────┐
    │         │
┌───▼───┐ ┌──▼────┐
│SQLite │ │Pinecone│
│  DB   │ │Vector DB│
└───────┘ └────────┘
```

### Key Design Decisions

- **Monorepo Structure**: Shared TypeScript configs, single dependency management, easier refactoring
- **RESTful API**: Standard HTTP methods, predictable endpoints, easy to test and integrate
- **Session-based Auth**: Simple, secure, no JWT complexity for single-server deployments
- **Vector Search Pipeline**: Embed → Search → Rerank for optimal relevance
- **Retry Logic**: Automatic retries for Pinecone operations with exponential backoff

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- **Node.js** 20+ ([install with nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm#installing-and-updating))
- **npm** 9+ (comes with Node.js)
- **Pinecone Account** ([sign up for free](https://www.pinecone.io/))

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**
```bash
git clone <YOUR_GIT_URL>
cd assist-craft-qna
```

2. **Install dependencies**
```bash
npm install
```

3. **Configure environment variables**

Copy the example environment file:
```bash
cp server/example.env server/.env
```

Edit `server/.env` with your configuration:
```env
PORT=8080
NODE_ENV=development
PORTAL_PASSWORD=your-secure-password-here
SESSION_SECRET=your-random-session-secret
SESSION_TTL_SECONDS=43200
SQLITE_PATH=./data/app.db

# Pinecone Configuration
PINECONE_API_KEY=your-pinecone-api-key
PINECONE_INDEX=your-index-name
PINECONE_HOST=https://your-index.svc.environment.pinecone.io
PINECONE_EMBED_MODEL=text-embedding-3-large
PINECONE_RERANK_MODEL=bge-reranker-v2-m3
PINECONE_RERANK_DAILY_LIMIT=500
CSV_BATCH_SIZE=25
```

4. **Start the development server**
```bash
npm run dev
```

This will start both frontend and backend servers:
- **Frontend**: http://localhost:5173
- **Backend API**: http://localhost:8080

### First Steps

1. Open http://localhost:5173 in your browser
2. Login with the password from `PORTAL_PASSWORD` in your `.env` file
3. Add your first Q&A pair or import a CSV file
4. Start searching!

## 📖 Usage

### Adding Q&A Pairs

**Manual Entry:**
- Navigate to "Q&A Management"
- Click "Add New Q&A"
- Enter question and answer
- Save (automatically synced to Pinecone)

**Bulk Import:**
- Use the CSV import feature
- Format: `question,answer` (headers required)
- Supports batch processing with configurable chunk size

### Searching

- Enter your query in the search box
- Results are automatically:
  1. Embedded using query-optimized embeddings
  2. Retrieved via vector similarity search
  3. Reranked by semantic relevance
- Top result displayed prominently with confidence indicators

### Settings

- Configure embedding and rerank models (read-only, set via environment)
- Toggle reranker on/off
- View system metrics

## 🧪 Development

### Project Structure

```
assist-craft-qna/
├── frontend/          # React + Vite application
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── components/  # Reusable UI components
│   │   ├── pages/       # Route pages
│   │   ├── hooks/       # Custom React hooks
│   │   └── lib/         # Utilities and API client
│   └── package.json
├── server/            # Express + TypeScript backend
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── routes/      # API route handlers
│   │   ├── services/    # Business logic
│   │   ├── middleware/  # Express middleware
│   │   └── lib/         # Utilities and config
│   └── package.json
└── package.json       # Root workspace config
```

### Available Scripts

```bash
# Start both frontend and backend
npm run dev

# Start only backend
npm run dev:server

# Start only frontend
npm run dev:frontend

# Build for production
npm run build --workspace frontend
npm run build --workspace server
```

### API Endpoints

- `POST /api/auth/login` - Authenticate user
- `POST /api/auth/logout` - End session
- `GET /api/qa` - List Q&A pairs (paginated)
- `POST /api/qa` - Create new Q&A pair
- `PUT /api/qa/:id` - Update Q&A pair
- `DELETE /api/qa/:id` - Delete Q&A pair
- `POST /api/qa/import` - Bulk import from CSV
- `GET /api/search?query=...` - Semantic search
- `GET /api/metrics` - System statistics
- `GET /api/settings` - Get settings
- `PUT /api/settings` - Update settings


## 📝 License

ISC

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

---

**Built with ❤️ using open-source technologies**

Commit message:

Update README and QAManagement component to reflect XLSX import/export functionality. Change references from CSV to Excel in documentation and user interface. Improve error messages and user feedback for XLSX file handling, ensuring clarity in both English and Russian. Enhance import/export notifications for better user experience.

README.md, after:

# 🚀 Smart FAQ - AI-Powered Q&A Assistant

> A modern, production-ready Question & Answer management system powered by vector search and semantic reranking. Built with cutting-edge open-source technologies for maximum performance and developer experience.

[![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-007ACC?style=flat&logo=typescript&logoColor=white)](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
[![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/React-20232A?style=flat&logo=react&logoColor=61DAFB)](https://reactjs.org/)
[![Node.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-339933?style=flat&logo=nodedotjs&logoColor=white)](https://nodejs.org/)
[![Pinecone](https://img.shields.io/badge/Pinecone-430098?style=flat&logo=pinecone&logoColor=white)](https://www.pinecone.io/)

## ✨ Features

- **🔍 Semantic Search**: Lightning-fast vector similarity search powered by Pinecone
- **🎯 Intelligent Reranking**: Advanced transformer-based reranking for precise relevance scoring
- **📊 Modern UI**: Beautiful, responsive interface built with shadcn/ui and Tailwind CSS
- **📝 Q&A Management**: Full CRUD operations with bulk Excel import/export
- **🌐 Multi-language Support**: Optimized embeddings for query and passage types
- **🔐 Secure Authentication**: Session-based access control
- **⚡ Real-time Updates**: Live metrics and instant search results
- **📱 Mobile-First**: Fully responsive design for all devices

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

### Frontend
- **⚛️ React 18** - Modern UI library with hooks and concurrent features
- **📘 TypeScript** - Type-safe development with excellent IDE support
- **⚡ Vite** - Next-generation frontend tooling with instant HMR
- **🎨 Tailwind CSS** - Utility-first CSS framework for rapid UI development
- **🧩 shadcn/ui** - High-quality, accessible component library built on Radix UI
- **🔄 React Query** - Powerful data synchronization and caching
- **🗺️ React Router** - Declarative routing for single-page applications
- **📊 Recharts** - Composable charting library built on React components

**Why these technologies?**
- **React + TypeScript**: Industry-standard combination providing type safety, excellent tooling, and massive ecosystem
- **Vite**: 10-100x faster than Webpack, instant server start, and optimized production builds
- **Tailwind CSS**: Write styles faster, maintain consistency, and build responsive UIs without leaving HTML
- **shadcn/ui**: Copy-paste components you own, fully customizable, accessible by default
- **React Query**: Eliminates boilerplate for data fetching, caching, synchronization, and background updates

### Backend
- **🟢 Node.js 20** - JavaScript runtime built on Chrome's V8 engine
- **🚀 Express 5** - Fast, unopinionated web framework for Node.js
- **📘 TypeScript** - End-to-end type safety across the stack
- **🗄️ SQLite (better-sqlite3)** - Zero-configuration database, perfect for embedded applications
- **🔍 Pinecone** - Managed vector database for production ML applications
- **✅ Zod** - TypeScript-first schema validation with static type inference
- **📝 Pino** - Extremely fast logger with structured JSON output

**Why these technologies?**
- **Express**: Minimal, flexible, battle-tested framework with massive middleware ecosystem
- **SQLite**: Perfect for applications needing reliable, file-based storage without database server overhead
- **Pinecone**: Production-ready vector DB with managed infrastructure, automatic scaling, and optimized performance
- **Zod**: Catch errors at runtime AND compile-time, eliminates duplicate type definitions
- **better-sqlite3**: Fastest SQLite binding for Node.js, synchronous API perfect for server-side operations

### AI/ML
- **🧠 Pinecone Embeddings** - State-of-the-art embedding models (e.g., `text-embedding-3-large`)
- **🎯 Pinecone Reranker** - Transformer-based reranking models (e.g., `bge-reranker-v2-m3`)
- **📊 Semantic Search** - Query-aware embeddings optimized for search vs. document storage

**Why Pinecone?**
- **Managed Infrastructure**: No DevOps overhead, automatic scaling, and 99.9% uptime SLA
- **Optimized Performance**: Sub-50ms query latency, handles millions of vectors effortlessly
- **Production-Ready**: Battle-tested by thousands of companies, enterprise-grade security
- **Multi-language Support**: Excellent coverage for international applications
- **Unified API**: Embeddings, vector storage, and reranking through a single platform

## 🏗️ Architecture

```
┌─────────────────┐
│   React + Vite  │  Frontend (Port 5173)
│   TypeScript    │
└────────┬────────┘
         │ REST API
┌────────▼────────┐
│  Express Server │  Backend (Port 8080)
│   TypeScript    │
└────────┬────────┘
         │
    ┌────┴────┐
    │         │
┌───▼───┐ ┌──▼────┐
│SQLite │ │Pinecone│
│  DB   │ │Vector DB│
└───────┘ └────────┘
```

### Key Design Decisions

- **Monorepo Structure**: Shared TypeScript configs, single dependency management, easier refactoring
- **RESTful API**: Standard HTTP methods, predictable endpoints, easy to test and integrate
- **Session-based Auth**: Simple, secure, no JWT complexity for single-server deployments
- **Vector Search Pipeline**: Embed → Search → Rerank for optimal relevance
- **Retry Logic**: Automatic retries for Pinecone operations with exponential backoff

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- **Node.js** 20+ ([install with nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm#installing-and-updating))
- **npm** 9+ (comes with Node.js)
- **Pinecone Account** ([sign up for free](https://www.pinecone.io/))

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**
```bash
git clone <YOUR_GIT_URL>
cd assist-craft-qna
```

2. **Install dependencies**
```bash
npm install
```

3. **Configure environment variables**

Copy the example environment file:
```bash
cp server/example.env server/.env
```

Edit `server/.env` with your configuration:
```env
PORT=8080
NODE_ENV=development
PORTAL_PASSWORD=your-secure-password-here
SESSION_SECRET=your-random-session-secret
SESSION_TTL_SECONDS=43200
SQLITE_PATH=./data/app.db

# Pinecone Configuration
PINECONE_API_KEY=your-pinecone-api-key
PINECONE_INDEX=your-index-name
PINECONE_HOST=https://your-index.svc.environment.pinecone.io
PINECONE_EMBED_MODEL=text-embedding-3-large
PINECONE_RERANK_MODEL=bge-reranker-v2-m3
PINECONE_RERANK_DAILY_LIMIT=500
CSV_BATCH_SIZE=25
```

4. **Start the development server**
```bash
npm run dev
```

This will start both frontend and backend servers:
- **Frontend**: http://localhost:5173
- **Backend API**: http://localhost:8080

**Note:** The SQLite database will be created automatically on first run in `server/data/app.db`. Database files are excluded from git via `.gitignore` to keep your data private.

### First Steps

1. Open http://localhost:5173 in your browser
2. Login with the password from `PORTAL_PASSWORD` in your `.env` file
3. Add your first Q&A pair or import an Excel file
4. Start searching!

## 📖 Usage

### Adding Q&A Pairs

**Manual Entry:**
- Navigate to "Q&A Management"
- Click "Add New Q&A"
- Enter question and answer
- Save (automatically synced to Pinecone)

**Bulk Import:**
- Use the Excel import feature
- Upload an XLSX file with the following column headers: `question`, `answer`, `language` (optional)
- Supports batch processing with configurable chunk size
- Example structure:
  | question | answer | language |
  |----------|--------|----------|
  | What is AI? | Artificial Intelligence... | en |
  | Что такое ИИ? | Искусственный интеллект... | ru |

### Searching

- Enter your query in the search box
- Results are automatically:
  1. Embedded using query-optimized embeddings
  2. Retrieved via vector similarity search
  3. Reranked by semantic relevance
- Top result displayed prominently with confidence indicators

### Settings

- Configure embedding and rerank models (read-only, set via environment)
- Toggle reranker on/off
- View system metrics

## 🧪 Development

### Project Structure

```
assist-craft-qna/
├── frontend/          # React + Vite application
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── components/  # Reusable UI components
│   │   ├── pages/       # Route pages
│   │   ├── hooks/       # Custom React hooks
│   │   └── lib/         # Utilities and API client
│   └── package.json
├── server/            # Express + TypeScript backend
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── routes/      # API route handlers
│   │   ├── services/    # Business logic
│   │   ├── middleware/  # Express middleware
│   │   └── lib/         # Utilities and config
│   └── package.json
└── package.json       # Root workspace config
```

### Available Scripts

```bash
# Start both frontend and backend
npm run dev

# Start only backend
npm run dev:server

# Start only frontend
npm run dev:frontend

# Build for production
npm run build --workspace frontend
npm run build --workspace server
```

### API Endpoints

- `POST /api/auth/login` - Authenticate user
- `POST /api/auth/logout` - End session
- `GET /api/qa` - List Q&A pairs (paginated)
- `POST /api/qa` - Create new Q&A pair
- `PUT /api/qa/:id` - Update Q&A pair
- `DELETE /api/qa/:id` - Delete Q&A pair
- `POST /api/qa/import` - Bulk import from Excel (XLSX)
- `GET /api/search?query=...` - Semantic search
- `GET /api/metrics` - System statistics
- `GET /api/settings` - Get settings
- `PUT /api/settings` - Update settings


## 📝 License

ISC

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

---

**Built with ❤️ using open-source technologies**
